# module_18

# In module 18, I sought out to answer 2 questions and show the most popular start and end locations. The questions evaulated were "What start and end times are citibikes most used?" and "How do the different types of citibikes usage compare?". The JC-202306-citibike-tripdata.csv.zip from https://s3.amazonaws.com/tripdata/index.html was used for this analysis. The story labelled 'Story' is used to answer these questions. To open Tableau story, click https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/hannah.weber5582/viz/module_18_challenge/Story. To change slides in the story, click the left or right arrow buttons or the title of the slide you would like to review. 

# For "What start and end times are citibikes most used", shown on the 'Start vs End Time' slide, the count of rides at each hour show 5:00 pm being having the largest start and end counts. This brought up another question, why are the curves of the start and end charts so similar? Looking at 'Start Time vs Average Duration", we can see the average ride duration is .2655 hours at 5:00 pm. In general, looking at the 'Start Time vs Average Duration' chart, the average duration of a ride is at max .32 hours which is about 20 minutes. It makes sense that the start time and end time slopes from 'Start vs End Time' have similar values because rides are starting and ending usually within the same hour. The charts used to answer this question are shown individually as 'Hour Started vs Hour Ended' and 'Start Time vs Ride Duration'. The dashboard which includes both of these charts is shown as 'Start Time vs End Time'.

# For "How do the different types of citibikes usage compare", shown on the 'Ride Type Duration' slide, the top chart chart shows classic bikes having the most ride time, electric bikes having the second most ride time, and docked bikes having the least ride time. The bottom chart shows for each type of citibike, they mostly are ridden under .5 hour. This makes sense from what we saw on the 'Start Time vs Average Duration' slide that showed the average duration of a ride is at max .32 hours which is about 20 minutes. The charts used to answer this question are shown individually as 'Ride Type Duration' and 'Ride Type Duration BreakDown'. The dashboard which includes both of these charts is shown as 'Ride Type Duration Dashboard'. The classic bike values are shown in blue, docked bike values are shown in orange, and the electric bike are shown in red. 

# For the most popular start and end locations, shown on the 'Popularity Maps' slide, the map with start locations is shown on top and the map with end locations are shown on bottom. As a locations popularity (count of rides) increases, the color of the location gets darked. The zip code boundaries and labels are shown on the map for reference. The start and end locations have similar popular locations. As we have seen on previous slides, this makes sense because the average duration of a ride is at max .32 hours which is about 20 minutes.